Question 1: 

Hello,

I'm new to search engines, and there are a lot of concepts I'm not educated on. To make my onboarding smoother, it'd help if you could provide me with some definitions of the following concepts:

Records

Indexing

I'm also struggling with understanding what types of metrics would be useful to include in the "Custom Ranking."

Cheers, George


Hi George,

These are great questions to get a handle on as you dive into Algolia and search in general.

A “record” is an item stored within an index.  You can think of an index and its records as being analogous to a database table and its rows, or a dictionary and its words.  
 
The term “indexing” refers to the process of adding, updating, deleting, or manipulating the data within the index.

Custom ranking is all about incorporating business metrics into your search result ranking.  Think number of sales, views or likes.  For example, if you want items with more “likes” to rank higher in your search results, Algolia allows you to fine-tune how prominently the number of “likes” will feature in the ranking algorithm. 
 
I hope this helps. If any of my examples aren’t making sense, or if you have other questions, please let me know.

Regards,

Doug Stockalper


Question 2: 

Hello,

Sorry to give you the kind of feedback that I know you do not want to hear, but I really hate the new dashboard design. Clearing and deleting indexes are now several clicks away. I am needing to use these features while iterating, so this is inconvenient.

Regards, Matt


Hi Matt,

We value all feedback from our users, including negative feedback, as it helps us improve on our product and documentation.  So your email is much appreciated. 

I’m sorry to hear you’re having difficulty with deleting indexes from the dashboard.  Using the dashboard can be a great way to get up and running quickly, but we generally recommend that users manage indexes via our API.  Doing so will make it easier to manage your indexes and keep them up to date.  For example, you can use the Delete Index and Clear Index API methods to avoid clicking through the dashboard:

https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-client/manage-indices/

Additionally, we’ve built a number of extensions that simplify the indexation process for users of popular third-party platforms such as Magento, WordPress, Zendesk, Shopify.  

Let me know if you’d like help getting setup with one of our API clients or installing a third-party extension, or if you have specific questions related to the methods I mentioned above.

Regards,

Doug Stockalper


Question 3: 

Hi,

I'm looking to integrate Algolia in my website. Will this be a lot of development work for me? What's the high level process look like?

Regards, Leo


Hi Leo,

Thank you for considering Algolia.  Integrating Algolia search into your website is a three-step process:

1. Import the data you want to index.
2. Fine-tune the search ranking rules to your use-case.
3. Create the search UI/UX using one of our front-end API clients.

The amount of development work depends on several factors, including the organization of your data, and your choice of UI.  Most of our users end up with a fully functional search within 1 to 10 days of sign-up, and bulk of the work typically consists of improving their app or website’s user experience.  

I’d recommend taking a look at our Getting Started guide for more information on implementing Algolia into your website.  Please feel free to reach out with any questions, as we’re happy to help guide you at each step of the process.

Regards,

Doug Stockalper


